[Music]
next step Buffalo we had John Elway Jim
Kelly and Dan Marino and that order were
on our board John Elway had a great
season bid I'm not going to degrade
myself saying I'm any less of a player
than he is he's great there's log great
players and I think I'm among old after
Elway was picked first in hearing that
he didn't want to play for the Baltimore
Colts I remember a few pics later my
agent turned to me and he said Jim is
there anybody you don't want to play for
hey oh yeah I don't remember I went to
the University of Miami of Florida I
said yeah I don't want to play for the
Minnesota Vikings I don't want to play
for the Green Bay Packers and I sure
don't want to play for the Buffalo Bills
and my mother was on the right arm to
chair my dad was on the left arm to
chair and I'm sitting in front of a TV
of such the 12th pick in the first round
and I'm sitting there saying please
don't pick me
and I remember Pete Rozelle getting up
saying the Buffalo Bills slicked tie Dan
Tony hunter from Notre Dame yeah I
jumped out of my seat I hit my mother
not my mother on the ground I'm like I'm
sorry Bob I'm sort of pick my mother up
I go but I'm not going to Buffalo right
before the next pick my agent said
relaxed him the bills also have the 14th
pick of the first round we went for Tony
first knowing that we we had Marino and
we had Kelly and we know where we're
gonna get one of Detroit Lions first
pick in the first round James Jones
fullback Florida
hey listen save rozelle gets up and he
says the buffalo bill slept with a 14th
pick quarterback Jim Kelly Miami of
Florida I cried I really literally cry I
said teared I'm like he's gotta be
kidding me
Buffalo has just selected Jim Kelly
quarterback out of Miami and he's on the
telephone line with us now Jim
congratulations were you surprised to be
selected by Buffalo um from the
beginning I sort of thought is gonna be
Buffalo I've read on articles I've
talked to many people and I'm not
surprised at all
I just want Thank You Buffalo Bills from
the assistant pick me and I'm just
grateful to being part of the Buffalo
Bills organization you have to say those
things it's just part of uh you know
selling yourself to the franchise that
picked you of course those are lies
Jim Kelly was resigned to his fate as a
bill until he got a last-minute reprieve
from the upstart USFL he was in the
office ready to sign
I was outside anticipating it we'd have
him signed and let me congratulate him I
remember a secretary coming into the
meeting and interrupting and
asking one of my agents saw there's a
very important phone call that you need
to take that was a general manager of
the Chicago blitz
I called to the Buffalo offices and for
some reason they put me through Isaiah
told me they don't even know who I'm
talking to us well don't tell them who
you're talking to just you got to get
out of those offices and we'll we'll
talk tonight and there's no way that
they won't pay you more if you walk out
of there and I promise you
the USFL will pay you more than that it
was a mistake on a Secretary's part when
you walked out I knew it lost you yes if
I said pick who everyone who do you want
to play for we just need to get top
quarterbacks into this leg tell us who
you want to play for
now I remember going to do Euston
gamblers and playing at dome Stadium
quarterback no wind no rain they talked
me into it do you think this is a big
chance you're taking is it a big risk
for him you know anything you do you
know red yep big gambles and that's
water Cody is the gamblers Kelly's
gamble paid off
he was USFL MVP in 1984 throwing for
more yards than anyone in pro football
at the time he had few regrets I do want
to retire in Houston and I probably can
go on days and days talk about why I
picked you guys for the NFL would you
rather be in use in her Buffalo I'll
stop there just call him kelly green
green as in money and it took almost
eight million dollars worth of rain to
put Jim Kelly in a Bills uniform in 1986
the collapse of the USFL and the biggest
deal in NFL history made Buffalo look a
lot better to Jim Kelly now it's home
be able to sit here today 52 years old
and understand that there are reasons
for everything I will wake up tomorrow
look back on my NFL career with a big
smile
[Music]